the internet is packed full of
clips of people's cats doing
hilarious things so we thought
we put these wonders of the web
to work and find out if cats are
as clever as their smug little
faces suggest or other as dark
as the rest of us
let's jump straight in by
examining cats amazing leaping
skills blessed with incredibly
powerful back legs and the low
body weight they're capable of
jumping up to six times their
own height with grace and
pinpoint accuracy when it comes
to our leaping press pound for
pound we lack at strength there
grace
go and their accuracy that I'm
sure you smash it next time
no now so what is it about to
kick his leap that leaves us
humans for dust
well it's all down to evolution
and increasing kinetic energy
for the jump when preparing to
jump Missy adopt a crouched
position like a coiled spring
this allows her to exploit the
full strength of her powerful
rear legs as she leaps upwards
on landing she pulls herself up
with her back legs gripping with
her claws bringing her to a
graceful hot in the wild cats
use their leaping skills as an
essential part of hunting and
modest domesticus still likes to
keep his eye he spotted his prey
he waited he passed he forgot
about the window a number um is
no fun
it's time mr. waffles found
somewhere warmer to sit mr.
waffles didn't figure on the
importance of friction when
attempting to liftoff
although he was hoping to jump
up by pushing down and backwards
on the car roof Heaslip meant
the energy was wasted
but suppose